# CS366 Final Project
### Shelby Roman (12/5/2025)
**Abstract**: In this project, my goal was to train a model to take in images of handwritten Spanish text and output the text, paying special attention to the accents. I am specifically focusing on images of handwritten Spanish text from the 1800s. These manuscripts are written in a script which is more difficult to read. This is important because OCR tends to have difficulties recognizing the accents in Spanish text, which can completely change the meaning of a word, phrase, or sentence. For example, in Spanish, “sí” with an accent means “yes”, while “si” without an accent means “if”. The absence or presence of the accent alters the sentence entirely. Additionally, OCR has trouble reading the type of handwritten script that these images contain. Training a model to do this is very important because it will improve the research possibilities of historical Spanish manuscripts from the 1800s. This model will allow us to more easily digitize, translate, and analyze these historical documents, preserving cultural history. This adds the ability to create a searchable database of Spanish documents that were previously inaccessible to the general population since they are difficult to read. This can also accelerate research since we could search through the documents more easily. Overall, this project has a lot of realistic and helpful applications.

**More Information**: To find more information about this project, check out my website: https://shelbyroman1.github.io
